Hello.

Every data sequence with almost any type of modulation (except amplitude modulation of cause) has a different spectral density.
That is obviously because they have different results after Fourier Transform :).

So we can determine signals that can reach much longer than other signals (because of spectre).
Also, we can simply build amplitude/phase characteristics of transmission function based on the quality of different sequences.
If that effect takes place we can develop a new protocol that can change the basis of binary codes to use them in transmission.
If not - we will get a good transmission function to work with.

The second part -
Recreate basic signals from spectral portrait with the help of DSP and machine learning.
Now that is used in some cell phones and so on.
Have lost of signal on some range of frequencies - just recreate signal from its spectral portrait (or from other projections).
Also there is possible to create sets of sequences that will be more tolerant to selected Interferences.

And another approach - use two-three sequences that differ a lot and can reach the receiver and send data within that basis.
Its can be very helpful sometimes.

All that changes don't require changes of hardware and can be implemented on protocol level.

The other part of work - determine weaknesses of MIMO solution.
1) So, we can simply get transmission functions for different weather conditions and frequencies and check main frequency/modulation types.
2) Check real spectral density of radio channel - there is can be a lot of surprises here
3) Check protocol (on all OSI levels) - there is can be a lot of errors that reduce quality of link

That is the brief description of planned work.

I have a specialization in Machine Learning by coursera.
And 3 related courses.
Also I have experience with python (and even publication approved by astrophysics (theme - machine learning)
https://medium.com/@pushkarevvaleriyandreevich/gr​adient-descent-that-we-must-have-5a4542e218a0).
